
*oeyvind*:
one two three four five six seven eight nine ten
coffee bottle screwdriver drill
hello smiley face

*axel*:
hi my name is axel this is a test to show how self learns
i think it is fun with self generating networks
word follow word
instability may lead to interesting behaviour
the network knows nothing about gas

*mick*: 
i was born in a crossfire hurricane 
and i howled at my ma in the driving rain, 
but it's all right now, in fact, it's a gas 
but it's all right.
i'm jumpin' jack flash, 
it's a gas  gas  gas

*tomr*:
well there ain't no route you could choose to lose the two of us
ain't nobody know when you're acting right or wrong
no one knows if a roadway's leading nowhere
gonna keep on driving home on the road i'm on... 
two four six eight ain't never too late
me and my radio truckin' on thru the night
three five seven nine on a double white line
motorway sun coming up with the morning light

*lana*:
give me coffee, king sized cup
come on, kitty cat, fill her up
what's your name, little buttercup
that's for me to know and you to make up
love casinos, indian reservations
but, baby, if you love me, take me to the gas station
gas station

*tomw*:
nighthawks at the diner, emma's 49er
there's a rendezvous of strangers around the coffee urn tonight
all the gypsy hacks, the insomniacs
now the paper's been read
now the waitress said
eggs and sausage and a side of toast
coffee and a roll, hash browns over easy
chile in a bowl with burgers and fries, what kind of pie

*gov*:
everyone needs to be prepared for the unexpected. 
your friends and family may not be together when disaster strikes. 
how will you find each other 
will you know if your children or parents are safe 
you may have to evacuate or be confined to your home. 
what will you do if water, gas, electricity or phone services are shut off
put together a basic disaster supplies kit and consider storage locations for different situations. 
help community members do the same.
make sure your hurricane kit includes:
flashlights & extra bulbs
battery operated radio
battery operated lanterns
batteries (in different sizes)  
matches 
first aid kit
duct tape
rain gear
clock (wind up or battery powered)
plastic garbage bags
fire extinguisher
scissors
can opener
clean clothes
extra blankets
heavy gloves

*obama*:
first of all, i want to thank gail and charlie who are on the scene doing work every time we have a disaster here in the united states of america. 
but obviously, the red cross is doing outstanding work internationally, so we want to thank them for their outstanding work.
a few things that i want to emphasize to the public at the top. 
this storm is not yet over. 
we've gotten briefings from the national hurricane center. 
it is still moving north. 
there are still communities that could be affected. 
and so i want to emphasize there are still risks of flooding, there are still risks of down power lines, risks of high winds. 
and so it is very important for the public to continue to monitor the situation in your local community, listen to your state and local officials, follow instructions. 
the more you follow instructions, the easier it is for our first responders to make sure that they are dealing with true emergency situations. 
so the better prepared individual families are for the situation, the easier it is going to be for us to deal with it.

*bio*:
we can't have a serious conversation about  greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions and the environment without first addressing the renewable fuel standard (rfs). 
today, the president called for next generation biofuels in a speech at georgetown university.
why because not only is the current generation of biofuels failing to deliver promised environmental benefits, it's actually working against those goals.
if the u.s. is to truly lead the global effort in climate change, we need to consider the impact of corn ethanol production on land, air and water resources.
the president's speech raises an opportunity to address the policies harming our land, air and water resources and make strides to protect the environment; but forging ahead with failed polices like the rfs and biofuel mandates will only set us back.

